---
title: "Openstack - Deploying a Virtual Machine with a spark data platform"
date: 2025-03-30
---


# Summary
In here insert an AI generated summary (say generated by Mistral AI)

# Set up: new user and new project
- Rather than using an admin user for everything
  + To do this when signed in as the admin user go to settings under the admin user name in the top right
  + then click Identity on the left hand side of the screen
  + Click Users then create the new user
- I am keeping things very simple here and using fedora for all my vms, apart from the VM which I have set up Openstack which is using Ubunuta - for ease of install
- Created a new project called data_platform. To do this we need to:
  + Go to the settings under the admin user, click identity, click projects and create a new user, giving your new user access to this project as an admin
- Now 

# Install a VM

## First create an image
- Here I downloaded the latest Fedora .iso and then I used that for creating an image, in the Compute>Image section of the left hand menu.
  + After one has uploaded the image you will need to wait until the status is no longer qued but instead reads: 
  + You can't just grab an intsaller image as you would if you were creating your own VM. 
  + Instead go here and follow the links to get the images you want. I will be using Fedora and Ubunt servers.
- Then we deploy a VM as follows
https://creodias.docs.cloudferro.com/en/latest/cloud/How-to-create-new-Linux-VM-in-OpenStack-Dashboard-Horizon-on-Creodias.html
I am install a VM - reference where I got the information

Ensure when creating that you create or use an existing key-pair so that you can log in

Now you have your VM running, but how do you log in to it and create an account?

SSH from your terminal of your machine.

Use option 3 here to create a username and password during the creation of your VM
https://ukyrcd.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/RCDDocs/pages/162107886/How+to+create+VMs+in+OpenStack

I now have an instance of Fedora server running on my Openstack environment. 

My next steps is to get the network sorted out so the virtual machine can connect to the internet, I will then be installing Apache spark on this platform along with Neo4j which I will be using as a data platform with a Graph database for my data management in the platform.

Instalments ahead
- Populating our Spark data platform
- Creating our data catalogue
- Visualising and understanding our data
- Combing generative AI with Graph databases to efficiently query and model our data










